  - **Avoid Achievement Spam**. If a game has 100 levels, do not make an achievement for each level. Do every 25 or so. Consider the time segment a casual player would unlock these progressive Achievements in. If generally you could unlock all in a progressive set of Achievements of this nature in under half an hour as a casual player, that's filler design, and not recommended.

- If you wanna create an achievement for **collecting a specific and unique item** in the game, add some conditions to make sure the player got the item where it is supposed to be obtained, [like in this template here](Achievement-Templates#collect-an-item-in-a-specific-level). Otherwise the achievement may trigger by using password, loading a save game, etc.

- **Be Creative and Fun**: Get as creative as possible with achievements. "Beat X without using/doing Y", "Beat X in 5 seconds", "3 heart run". Be sure casual players can still get these with their best effort. It isn't fun if its way too difficult for a casual player!  (See:  **Bonus Set Tips** below for the real challenges!). There is a whole page about [Achievement Design](Achievement-Design) that can give good advices on how to think about good achievements.

- **We love Art**:  Pretty badges are rewarding badges! It should visually represent the achievement itself, or hint at the location in the game for secrets.  Matching to the game's art style works well.  Google Image searches for "Sprite Sheets" is an useful tip to include some game art. If you're a good graphics artist, updating badges is your time to shine! More info can be found at the [Badge and Icon Creation page](Badge-and-Icon-Creation).

- **Regional Consideration**: For games with text-triggered achievements (especially RPGs) it's recommend to find an event flag instead of hooking onto text or text ID. Text presentation varies between regional versions making multi-region support difficult.